Revamp Logging documentations in 0.19 (#2665)
kedro-org/kedro: docs/source/logging/logging.md

# Default logging configuration
Kedro's [default logging configuration](https://github.com/kedro-org/kedro/blob/main/kedro/framework/project/default_logging.yml) defines a handler called `rich` that uses the Rich logging handler to format messages. We also use the Rich traceback handler to render exceptions.

> By default, Python only shows logging messages at level `WARNING` and above. Kedro's logging configuration specifies that `INFO` level messages from Kedro should also be emitted. This makes it easier to track the progress of your pipeline when you perform a kedro run.

Reviewer: I would make this sentence the first one in the file, and then follow it with "Kedro's [default logging configuration](...)..."

> By default, Python only shows logging messages at level `WARNING` and above. Kedro's logging configuration specifies that `INFO` level messages from Kedro should also be emitted. This makes it easier to track the progress of your pipeline when you perform a kedro run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Python only shows logging messages at level `WARNING` and above. Kedro's logging configuration specifies that `INFO` level messages from Kedro should also be emitted. This makes it easier to track the progress of your pipeline when you perform a `kedro run`.
```

## How to perform logging in your Kedro project
To add logging to your own code (e.g. in a node):

```python
import logging

log = logging.getLogger(__name__)
log.warning("Issue warning")
log.info("Send information")
log.debug("Useful information for debugging")
```

> ```{note}

Reviewer: Looking at this again, I realised I have no idea whatsoever what this means:

"The name of a logger corresponds to a key in the loggers section of the logging configuration file (e.g. kedro). See [Python’s logging documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/library/logging.html#logger-objects) for more information."

Does this have an relevance to the reader at this point or shall we remove it? Should it actually be a comment in the Kedro default_logging.yml file?

Author: I think this is explaining the line `log = logging.getLogger(__name__)`, here is how you define the `name` of a logger, and if you need configure it later what level of log you would like to see, you will do something like that. This is not kedro specific.
```yml
loggers:
  kedro:
    level: INFO
  name_of_my_logger:
    level: ERROR
```

If someone use a random name like `log = logging.getLogger("random_name")`, the above configuration will not have any effect. I think there is some value to educate user or provide a pointer to user, but we shouldn't try to explain too much about how Python logging work.

The name of a logger corresponds to a key in the `loggers` section of the logging configuration file (e.g. `kedro`). See [Python's logging documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/library/logging.html#logger-objects) for more information.
```

You can take advantage of Rich's [console markup](https://rich.readthedocs.io/en/stable/markup.html) in your logging calls:

```python
log.error("[bold red blink]Important error message![/]", extra={"markup": True})
```

## How to customise Kedro logging

> ### Using `KEDRO_LOGGING_CONFIG` environment variable

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> To customise logging, specify the path of your logging configuration file by setting the environment variable `KEDRO_LOGGING_CONFIG` to override the default, which is Kedro's `default_logging.yml`. We recommend you put `logging.yml` inside the `conf` folder. For example, you can set `KEDRO_LOGGING_CONFIG` as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To customise logging in your Kedro project, you need to specify the path to a project-specific logging configuration file. Change the environment variable `KEDRO_LOGGING_CONFIG` to override the default logging configuration, which is Kedro's `default_logging.yml`. Point the variable instead to your project-specific configuration, which we recommend you name `logging.yml` and store inside the project's`conf` folder. 

For example, you can set `KEDRO_LOGGING_CONFIG` by typing the following into your terminal:
```

Reviewer: Am I right in thinking that the Kedro project template gives you a `logging.yml` file by default? Maybe modify my suggestion to mention that, if it's true?

```bash
export KEDRO_LOGGING_CONFIG=<project_root>/conf/logging.yml
```

After setting the environment variable, any subsequent Kedro commands will use the logging configuration file at the specified path.

```{note}
If the `KEDRO_LOGGING_CONFIG` environment variable is not set, Kedro will default to using the logging configuration file at the project's default location of  Kedro's `default_logging.yml`.
```

> ### Show DEBUG level messages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### How to show DEBUG level messages
```

> ### Show DEBUG level messages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How to show DEBUG level messages
```

Reviewer: This is now a subsection of "How to customise..." so makes more sense, since it is implicit that you'll have overridden the default and added `logging.yml`

> To see `DEBUG` level messages, change the level of logging in `logging.yml`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To see `DEBUG` level messages, change the level of logging in your project-specific logging configuration file (`logging.yml`):
```

```yaml
loggers:
  kedro:
    level: INFO

>   your_python_pacakge:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  your_python_package:
```

    level: DEBUG  # Change this to DEBUG
```

By changing the level value to `DEBUG` for the desired logger (e.g., <your_python_package>), you will start seeing `DEBUG` level messages in the log output.

> # Advanced logging

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Advanced logging
```

Reviewer: Should definitely not be a H1 header.

In addition to the `rich` handler defined in Kedro's framework, we provide a `logging.yml` template.

<details>

> <summary><b>Click to expand the `logging.yml` template</b></summary>

Reviewer: You'll need to put logging.yml in HTML code braces to get it working in rendered docs.

<code>logging.yml</code>

# Default logging configuration
Kedro's [default logging configuration](https://github.com/kedro-org/kedro/blob/main/kedro/framework/project/default_logging.yml) defines a handler called `rich` that uses the Rich logging handler to format messages. We also use the Rich traceback handler to render exceptions.

> By default, Python only shows logging messages at level WARNING and above. Kedro's logging configuration specifies that INFO level messages from Kedro should also be emitted. This makes it easier to track the progress of your pipeline when you perform a kedro run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Python only shows logging messages at level `WARNING` and above. Kedro's logging configuration specifies that `INFO` level messages from Kedro should also be emitted. This makes it easier to track the progress of your pipeline when you perform a kedro run.
```

## Perform logging in your project

> To add logging to your own code (e.g. in a node), you are advised to do as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add logging to your own code (e.g. in a node):
```

```python
import logging

log = logging.getLogger(__name__)
log.warning("Issue warning")
log.info("Send information")
log.debug("Useful information for debugging")
```

```{note}
The name of a logger corresponds to a key in the `loggers`  section in `logging.yml` (e.g. `kedro`). See [Python's logging documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/library/logging.html#logger-objects) for more information.
```

> You can take advantage of rich's [console markup](https://rich.readthedocs.io/en/stable/markup.html) when enabled in your logging calls:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can take advantage of Rich's [console markup](https://rich.readthedocs.io/en/stable/markup.html) when enabled in your logging calls:
```

```python
log.error("[bold red blink]Important error message![/]", extra={"markup": True})
```

### Show DEBUG level messages

> To see your `DEBUG` level message, you can change the level of log messages that you wish to see in `logging.yml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To see `DEBUG` level messages, change the level of logging in `logging.yml`.
```

```yml
loggers:
  kedro:
    level: INFO

  your_python_pacakge:
    level: DEBUG  # Change this to DEBUG
```

By changing the level value to `DEBUG` for the desired logger (e.g., <your_python_package>), you will start seeing `DEBUG` level messages in the log output.

## Customise Logging

### Using `KEDRO_LOGGING_CONFIG` environment variable

> In order to customise logging, you need to specify the path of your logging configuration file via setting the environment variable `KEDRO_LOGGING_CONFIG`, which overrides the default Kedro's `default_logging.yml`. We recommend to put your `logging.yml` inside the `conf` folder. For example, you can set `KEDRO_LOGGING_CONFIG` as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To customise logging, specify the path of your logging configuration file by setting the environment variable `KEDRO_LOGGING_CONFIG` to override the default, which is Kedro's `default_logging.yml`. We recommend you put `logging.yml` inside the `conf` folder. For example, you can set `KEDRO_LOGGING_CONFIG` as follows:
```

```bash
export KEDRO_LOGGING_CONFIG=<project_root>/conf/logging.yml
```

After setting the environment variable, any subsequent Kedro commands will use the logging configuration file at the specified path.

```{note}
If the `KEDRO_LOGGING_CONFIG` environment variable is not set, Kedro will default to using the logging configuration file at the project's default location of  Kedro's `default_logging.yml`.
```

# Advance Logging

> In addition to the `rich` handler defined in Kedro's framework, we provide a `logging.yml` template that you can use to start with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the `rich` handler defined in Kedro's framework, we provide a `logging.yml` template.
```

<details>
<summary><b>Click to expand the `logging.yml` template</b></summary>
```yml
version: 1

disable_existing_loggers: False

formatters:
  simple:
    format: "%(asctime)s - %(name)s - %(levelname)s - %(message)s"

handlers:
  console:
    class: logging.StreamHandler
    level: INFO
    formatter: simple
    stream: ext://sys.stdout

  info_file_handler:
    class: logging.handlers.RotatingFileHandler
    level: INFO
    formatter: simple
    filename: info.log
    maxBytes: 10485760 # 10MB
    backupCount: 20
    encoding: utf8
    delay: True

  rich:
    class: kedro.logging.RichHandler
    rich_tracebacks: True
    # Advance options for customisation.
    # See https://docs.kedro.org/en/stable/logging/logging.html#project-side-logging-configuration
    # tracebacks_show_locals: False

loggers:
  kedro:
    level: INFO

  {{ cookiecutter.python_package }}:
    level: INFO

root:
  handlers: [rich]
```
</details>

* `console`: show logs on standard output (typically your terminal screen) without any rich formatting
* `info_file_handler`: write logs of level `INFO` and above to `info.log`

> The logging handlers that are actually used by default is `rich`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The logging handlers used by default are from `rich`.
```

By default, Python only shows logging messages at level `WARNING` and above. Kedro's logging configuration specifies that `INFO` level messages from Kedro should also be emitted. This makes it easier to track the progress of your pipeline when you perform a kedro run.

## How to perform logging in your Kedro project
To add logging to your own code (e.g. in a node):

```python
import logging

log = logging.getLogger(__name__)
log.warning("Issue warning")
log.info("Send information")
log.debug("Useful information for debugging")
```

```{note}
The name of a logger corresponds to a key in the `loggers` section of the logging configuration file (e.g. `kedro`). See [Python's logging documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/library/logging.html#logger-objects) for more information.
```

You can take advantage of Rich's [console markup](https://rich.readthedocs.io/en/stable/markup.html) in your logging calls:

```python
log.error("[bold red blink]Important error message![/]", extra={"markup": True})
```

## How to customise Kedro logging

> ### Using `KEDRO_LOGGING_CONFIG` environment variable

Reviewer 2: The hierarchy of this section feels wrong because there's no other way to customise logging now.

"How to customise Kedro logging" is basically the same as "Using KEDRO_LOGGING_CONFIG environment variable", and then "Show DEBUG level messages" is really just another example of a sort of customisation you want to make. All the other examples are currently given under "Advanced logging". So I think we should reorganise this a bit.

Reviewer: How about we remove the sub-title "Using `KEDRO_LOGGING_CONFIG` environment variable" and just say that you need to use it for customisation. I'd like to keep the "How to customise Kedro logging" section heading but see what you're saying about the logic of the hierarchy. I've suggested the changes needed.

Author: I have incorporate this comment partially. I still think it is valuable to put the DEBUG level example first, since this is a common thing to do compare to other niche advance use cases. I've reorder things a bit so it is more consistent.

To customise logging, specify the path of your logging configuration file by setting the environment variable `KEDRO_LOGGING_CONFIG` to override the default, which is Kedro's `default_logging.yml`. We recommend you put `logging.yml` inside the `conf` folder. For example, you can set `KEDRO_LOGGING_CONFIG` as follows:

```bash
export KEDRO_LOGGING_CONFIG=<project_root>/conf/logging.yml
```

After setting the environment variable, any subsequent Kedro commands will use the logging configuration file at the specified path.

```{note}
If the `KEDRO_LOGGING_CONFIG` environment variable is not set, Kedro will default to using the logging configuration file at the project's default location of  Kedro's `default_logging.yml`.
```

### Show DEBUG level messages
To see `DEBUG` level messages, change the level of logging in `logging.yml`:

```yaml
loggers:
  kedro:
    level: INFO

  your_python_pacakge:
    level: DEBUG  # Change this to DEBUG
```

> By changing the level value to `DEBUG` for the desired logger (e.g., <your_python_package>), you will start seeing `DEBUG` level messages in the log output.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By changing the level value to `DEBUG` for the desired logger (e.g., `<your_python_package>`), you will start seeing `DEBUG` level messages in the log output.
```

Reviewer 2: The example doesn't make much sense here because if you just copy and paste this code into a new logging.yml file it won't work (you'd need to set the `version` key as a bare minimum also or Python won't load the config).

I'd put it after the bit where you show the whole "advanced" template in the next section and then do as a `diff` so that it's obvious what lines you're changing.

Reviewer: Does this work now I've adjusted the sectioning so it falls as a subsection of the "How to customise" and is _after_ the environment variable is set to point to `logging.yml` ? I didn't understand your comment about setting the version key.

Author: @stichbury I think the confusion here is the YAML example is only showing part of the file, the other part of the documentation is showing the `diff` instead.

A minimal `logging.yml` file need to have a `version` key which is required by the Python logging configuration. I will do as Antony suggested to add `+++` `---` to indicate it is a change that need to be applied on the file instead of just replacing the file.

# Advanced logging
In addition to the `rich` handler defined in Kedro's framework, we provide a `logging.yml` template.

<details>
<summary><b>Click to expand the `logging.yml` template</b></summary>

```yaml
version: 1

disable_existing_loggers: False

formatters:
  simple:
    format: "%(asctime)s - %(name)s - %(levelname)s - %(message)s"

handlers:
  console:
    class: logging.StreamHandler
    level: INFO
    formatter: simple
    stream: ext://sys.stdout

  info_file_handler:
    class: logging.handlers.RotatingFileHandler
    level: INFO
    formatter: simple
    filename: info.log
    maxBytes: 10485760 # 10MB
    backupCount: 20
    encoding: utf8
    delay: True

  rich:
    class: kedro.logging.RichHandler
    rich_tracebacks: True
    # Advance options for customisation.
    # See https://docs.kedro.org/en/stable/logging/logging.html#project-side-logging-configuration
    # tracebacks_show_locals: False

loggers:
  kedro:
    level: INFO

> 
>   {{ cookiecutter.python_package }}:
>     level: INFO

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
We should remove this because it's confusing and not actually needed thanks to #2520.

root:
  handlers: [rich]
```
</details>

* `console`: show logs on standard output (typically your terminal screen) without any rich formatting
* `info_file_handler`: write logs of level `INFO` and above to `info.log`

The logging handlers used by default are from `rich`.

> The default logging configuration also ensures that [logs emitted from your project's logger](#how-to-perform-logging-in-your-kedro-project) should be shown if they are `INFO` level or above (as opposed to the Python default of `WARNING`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Thanks to #2520.

# Default logging configuration
Kedro's [default logging configuration](https://github.com/kedro-org/kedro/blob/main/kedro/framework/project/default_logging.yml) defines a handler called `rich` that uses the Rich logging handler to format messages. We also use the Rich traceback handler to render exceptions.

By default, Python only shows logging messages at level WARNING and above. Kedro's logging configuration specifies that INFO level messages from Kedro should also be emitted. This makes it easier to track the progress of your pipeline when you perform a kedro run.

## Perform logging in your project

> To perform logging in your own code (e.g. in a node), you are advised to do as follows:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To add logging to your own code (e.g. in a node), you are advised to do as follows:
```

```python
import logging

log = logging.getLogger(__name__)
log.warning("Issue warning")
log.info("Send information")
log.debug("Useful information for debugging")
```

```{note}
The name of a logger corresponds to a key in the `loggers`  section in `logging.yml` (e.g. `kedro`). See [Python's logging documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/library/logging.html#logger-objects) for more information.
```

You can take advantage of rich's [console markup](https://rich.readthedocs.io/en/stable/markup.html) when enabled in your logging calls:
```python
log.error("[bold red blink]Important error message![/]", extra={"markup": True})
```

### Show DEBUG level messages

> To see your `DEBUG` level message, you can change the level of log messages that you wish to see in `logging.yml`.

Reviewer 3: `logging.yml` is no longer included by default, before referencing it in the docs maybe we should include some section/instructions on how to overwrite the default configuration, including where to keep the file and how to use the new env variable `KEDRO_LOGGING_CONFIG`

```yml
loggers:
  kedro:
    level: INFO

  your_python_pacakge:
    level: DEBUG  # Change this to DEBUG
```

By changing the level value to `DEBUG` for the desired logger (e.g., <your_python_package>), you will start seeing `DEBUG` level messages in the log output.

## Customise Logging

> In addition to the `rich` handler defined in Kedro's framework, the [project-side `conf/logging.yml`](https://github.com/kedro-org/kedro/blob/main/kedro/templates/project/%7B%7B%20cookiecutter.repo_name%20%7D%7D/conf/base/logging.yml) defines two further logging handlers:

Reviewer 3: `conf/logging.yml` will no longer exist - see: https://github.com/kedro-org/kedro/issues/2281 . Additionally `console` and `info_file_handler` are not included in the default logging setup

```yaml
rich:
  class: kedro.logging.RichHandler
  rich_tracebacks: True
  tracebacks_show_locals: True
```

A comprehensive list of available options can be found in the [RichHandler documentation](https://rich.readthedocs.io/en/stable/reference/logging.html#rich.logging.RichHandler).

## Enable file-based logging

File-based logging in Python projects aids troubleshooting and debugging. It offers better visibility into application's behavior and it's easy to search. However, it does not work well with read-only system such as [Databricks Repos](https://docs.databricks.com/repos/index.html).

> To enable file-based logging,  add `info_file_handler` in your `root` logger as follows in your `conf/logging.yml` as follow:

Reviewer 3: Instructions out of date as `conf/logging.yml` will be removed

Author: It's not a must but we recommend user to keep their `loggging.yml` in `conf`. Is it confusing to reference it as `conf/logging.yml` or should I just reference it as `logging.yml`?

Reviewer 2: I think putting this file in `conf` is natural, but we should make it clear that users need to create that file themselves and that it doesn't already exist.

```yaml
rich:
  class: kedro.logging.RichHandler
  rich_tracebacks: True
  tracebacks_show_locals: True
```

A comprehensive list of available options can be found in the [RichHandler documentation](https://rich.readthedocs.io/en/stable/reference/logging.html#rich.logging.RichHandler).

## How to enable file-based logging

File-based logging in Python projects aids troubleshooting and debugging. It offers better visibility into application's behaviour and it's easy to search. However, it does not work well with read-only systems such as [Databricks Repos](https://docs.databricks.com/repos/index.html).

To enable file-based logging,  add `info_file_handler` in your `root` logger as follows in your `conf/logging.yml` as follows:

```diff
 root:
-  handlers: [rich]
+  handlers: [rich, info_file_handler]
```

> By default it only tracks `INFO` level message, but it can be configured to capture any level of logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default it only tracks `INFO` level messages, but it can be configured to capture any level of logs.
```

Reviewer: How can it be configured to do that? Can you explain?

```yaml
rich:
  class: kedro.logging.RichHandler
  rich_tracebacks: True
  tracebacks_show_locals: True
```

A comprehensive list of available options can be found in the [RichHandler documentation](https://rich.readthedocs.io/en/stable/reference/logging.html#rich.logging.RichHandler).

## Enable file-based logging

> File-based logging in Python projects aids troubleshooting and debugging. It offers better visibility into application's behavior and it's easy to search. However, it does not work well with read-only system such as [Databricks Repos](https://docs.databricks.com/repos/index.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
File-based logging in Python projects aids troubleshooting and debugging. It offers better visibility into application's behaviour and it's easy to search. However, it does not work well with read-only systems such as [Databricks Repos](https://docs.databricks.com/repos/index.html).
```
